README.md, before:

# AUTO GO BRRR

## 1. Flash NVIDIA Jetson TX2 (8GB):

**You need Ubuntu 18.04 LTS on your computer (VM or Docker is sufficient) to flash the Nvidia**
[L4T and JetPack](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/L4T.md)

* Install [NVIDIA SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/drive/sdk-manager)
    * [Docker Guide](https://github.com/atinfinity/sdk_manager_docker)
    * When using VM, be sure that you can access the needed USB port
* **You need approx 30GB of free space to download needed files** - you can use an external disk but it needs to be formatted to ext4 (if using docker, you need to mount it)
* Connect to NVIDIA Jetson with a USB cable and, the SDK Manager and follow the [installation guide](https://connecttech.com/resource-center/kdb373/) for Orbitty Carrier
    * if the flashing doesn't work just try to restart the board (hold the power button until the sys control LED turns off and then turn off the power)
* Try to connect via ssh (with the board still connected via USB), but if it doesn't work (connection refused), you need to connect via UART and configure the system - ask someone for the  USB/UART converter (the device name is probably /dev/ttyAMC0 on Linux devices and the rate is 115200).
* Optional but recommended: Then you can run SDK manager again and install **just** Jetson SDK Components - if the board is connected to ethernet, use its IP address instead of the newly assigned one, it should be quicker

## 2. Upgrade Ubuntu
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

## 3. Setup UDEV
* [Guide](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/UDEV.md)
* You can now connect the USB hub and you should see i.e. /dev/tty.teensy (if connected)

## 4. Configure network devices
* [Guide](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/NETWORK.md#setup)
* **&#9432;** In section 1.c change the ipv4.address to 192.168.<random number from 0-255>.1/24

## 5. Create bootable SD card
* Format your SD card to `ext4` format
* Insert SD card to the NVIDIA Jetson and start the car
* Check if the SD card is recognized by running `lsblk`
* Device names:
    * `mmcblk0` = internal eMMC
    * **`mmcblk2` = SD card (as enumerated on JetPack 4.5.x)**
    * `mmcblk1` = SD card (as enumerated on JetPack 3.x)

* Mount the device - notice the mmcblk2**p1** suffix
    ```bash
    sudo mkdir /media/sdcard
    sudo mount /dev/mmcblk2p1 /media/sdcard
    ```
* Clean everything on the card (maybe there will be `lost+found` dir) and then copy the contents of the root directory to the SD card (this will take several minutes)
    ```bash
    rm -rf /media/sdcard/*
    sudo nohup cp -ax / /media/sdcard
    ```
    `nohup` will ensure, that the process won't be killed if your SSH connection crashes. In that case, you can reconnect and find the output of your command in `nohup.out`.

* Now reconfigure the boot config on the SD card
    ```bash
    cd /media/sdcard/boot/extlinux
    sudo cp extlinux.conf extlinux.conf.original
    sudo cp <your-path>/f1tenth-ros-setup/extlinux.conf /media/sdcard/boot/extlinux/extlinux.conf
    ```
* Reboot the system 
    ```bash
    sudo reboot
    ```
* After the reboot, the system should automatically boot from the SD card - you can verify it by running `df -h`
* You should see something like this
    ```
    nvidia@tx2-ros2:~$ df -h
    Filesystem      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
    /dev/mmcblk2p1  117G   22G   90G  20% /
    ...
    ```

## 6. Setup Docker environment
To use ROS2 Humble we need to set up a Docker image with Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
```bash
sudo usermod -a -G docker nvidia
sudo reboot
```

* Download [f1tenth rewrite](https://github.com/pokusew/f1tenth-rewrite) repo to the car's home and rename it to `f1tenth`
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/pokusew/f1tenth-rewrite.git
    mv f1tenth-rewrite f1tenth
    ````

* You need to build the docker image on the car, so there is no problem with the system version
* First, clone this git repo to the car and run available scripts
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:cihlami1/f1tenth-ros2-setup.git
    cd f1tenth-ros2-setup/docker_img_linux_cfg
    ./build.sh
    ```
* This will take a while, because we need to install all of ROS 2 Humble packages
* After the build, you need to start a docker container
* **You have to connect all the devices (vesc, imu, teensy) before running the script, otherwise the container won't start**
* Then just run the start script
    ```bash
    ./start_container.sh
    ```
* Now the docker container should be running
* If the start of the container failed or you can't see files in the `f1tenth` folder, you need to remove the container, check your configuration and start it again. So be sure that folder `f1tenth` is correctly mounted (you can see all the files) and that all the devices are connected before developing anything or it will be removed.
* **Never remove the container after final deployment or all your data will be lost**

### Useful commands for docker
```bash
docker ps                       # list running containers
docker ps -a                    # list all containers
docker stop <container-name>    # stop running container
docker rm <container-name>      # remove stopped container
docker exec -it <container-name> bash   # run docker environment (if ssh access is not working)
```


## 7. Connect to f1tenth car via ssh
* Now, when everything should be ready and you should be able to connect to the f1tenth car's docker container via ssh from your personal computer
* The docker container uses **port 2233** for ssh connection
* Connect to the wifi created by the car and run
    ```bash
    ssh -p 2233 nvidia@<ip-addr-of-car> # put here the IP address that you selected when seting up the device in section 4
    ```
* Or you can create/edit `~/.ssh/config` file on your personal computer
    ```bash
    Host <choose-name>
        HostName <ip-addr-of-car>
        User nvidia
        Port 2233
    ```
    and then simply run `ssh <choosen-name>`

## 8. Setup f1tenth workspace in the car's Docker container
* **Never build f1tenth ws in a terminal with sourced `f1tenth/install/source.bash`**, always use a separate window
```bash
cd ~/f1tenth
# Clone external packages' sources using vcstool.
vcs import --input stack.auto.repos --force
# Install any required dependencies using rosdep.
# We have to explicitly ignore
# - Stage because rosdep cannot detect pure CMake packages.
# - slam_toolbox and cartographer_ros because they are not needed for the FTG app
#   and might not be available on all platforms for an easy install using apt.
rosdep install -i --from-paths src -y --skip-keys="Stage slam_toolbox cartographer_ros"
# vesc_ackermann's build is failing (uses now-removed deprecated ROS 2 APIs) on rolling (and possibly humble).
# Because we do not use it now, we can afford to skip is build for now.
colcon build --symlink-install --mixin compile-commands --packages-ignore vesc_ackermann
```
* For multiple terminal windows, you can use [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki)
* Everything is already preconfigured, you can use the following command to start/attach to car's tmux session:
    ```bash
    tmux-car
    ```
* Other useful shortcuts:
    ```bash
    s           # source current ros workspace
    ws-clean    # clean current workspace
    car-start   # start the car by publishing false to /eStop topic
    auto start  # start the car by publishing false to /eStop topic
    car-stop    # stop the car by publishing true to /eStop topic
    auto stop   # stop the car by publishing true to /eStop topic
    ```

* For example, you can try running the Follow the Gap:
    ```bash
    # change the value of config based on your car
    ros2 launch auto auto.ftg.launch.py config:=tx2-auto-usa.yaml
    ```

Commit message:

Add gpu support in container

README.md, after:

# F1TENTH ROS 2 HUMBLE SETUP
This repository is a guide, on how to run ROS 2 Humble with CUDA support and PyTorch on NVIDIA Jetson TX2 (l4t:r32.7.2). Firstly we need to flast the NVIDIA and set up all needed devices. But the main contribution of this repository is the guide to running docker with Ubuntu 22.04 LTS, PyTorch with CUDA support and ROS 2 Humble.

## 1. Flash NVIDIA Jetson TX2 (8GB):

**You need Ubuntu 18.04 LTS on your computer (VM or Docker is sufficient) to flash the Nvidia**
[L4T and JetPack](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/L4T.md)

* Install [NVIDIA SDK Manager](https://developer.nvidia.com/drive/sdk-manager)
    * [Docker Guide](https://github.com/atinfinity/sdk_manager_docker)
    * When using VM, be sure that you can access the needed USB port
* **You need approx 30GB of free space to download needed files** - you can use an external disk but it needs to be formatted to ext4 (if using docker, you need to mount it)
* Connect to NVIDIA Jetson with a USB cable and, the SDK Manager and follow the [installation guide](https://connecttech.com/resource-center/kdb373/) for Orbitty Carrier
    * if the flashing doesn't work just try to restart the board (hold the power button until the sys control LED turns off and then turn off the power)
* Try to connect via ssh (with the board still connected via USB), but if it doesn't work (connection refused), you need to connect via UART and configure the system - ask someone for the  USB/UART converter (the device name is probably /dev/ttyAMC0 on Linux devices and the rate is 115200).
* Optional but recommended: Then you can run SDK manager again and install **just** Jetson SDK Components - if the board is connected to ethernet, use its IP address instead of the newly assigned one, it should be quicker

## 2. Upgrade Ubuntu
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

## 3. Setup UDEV
* [Guide](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/UDEV.md)
* You can now connect the USB hub and you should see i.e. /dev/tty.teensy (if connected)

## 4. Configure network devices
* [Guide](https://github.com/pokusew/ros-setup/blob/main/nvidia-jetson-tx2/NETWORK.md#setup)
* **&#9432;** In section 1.c change the ipv4.address to 192.168.<random number from 0-255>.1/24

## 5. Create bootable SD card
* Format your SD card to `ext4` format
* Insert SD card to the NVIDIA Jetson and start the car
* Check if the SD card is recognized by running `lsblk`
* Device names:
    * `mmcblk0` = internal eMMC
    * **`mmcblk2` = SD card (as enumerated on JetPack 4.5.x)**
    * `mmcblk1` = SD card (as enumerated on JetPack 3.x)

* Mount the device - notice the mmcblk2**p1** suffix
    ```bash
    sudo mkdir /media/sdcard
    sudo mount /dev/mmcblk2p1 /media/sdcard
    ```
* Clean everything on the card (maybe there will be `lost+found` dir) and then copy the contents of the root directory to the SD card (this will take several minutes)
    ```bash
    rm -rf /media/sdcard/*
    sudo nohup cp -ax / /media/sdcard
    ```
    `nohup` will ensure, that the process won't be killed if your SSH connection crashes. In that case, you can reconnect and find the output of your command in `nohup.out`.

* Now reconfigure the boot config on the SD card
    ```bash
    cd /media/sdcard/boot/extlinux
    sudo cp extlinux.conf extlinux.conf.original
    sudo cp <your-path>/f1tenth-ros-setup/extlinux.conf /media/sdcard/boot/extlinux/extlinux.conf
    ```
* Reboot the system 
    ```bash
    sudo reboot
    ```
* After the reboot, the system should automatically boot from the SD card - you can verify it by running `df -h`
* You should see something like this
    ```
    nvidia@tx2-ros2:~$ df -h
    Filesystem      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
    /dev/mmcblk2p1  117G   22G   90G  20% /
    ...
    ```

## 6. Setup Docker environment
To use ROS2 Humble we need to set up a Docker image with Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
```bash
sudo usermod -a -G docker nvidia
sudo reboot
```

* Download [f1tenth rewrite](https://github.com/CTU-F1T/f1tenth-rewrite) repo to the car's home and rename it to `f1tenth`
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/CTU-F1T/f1tenth-rewrite.git f1tenth
    ````

* You need to build the docker image on the car, so there is no problem with the system version
* First, clone this git repo to the car and run available scripts
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:cihlami1/f1tenth-ros2-setup.git
    cd f1tenth-ros2-setup
    ./build_image.sh
    ```
* This will take a while, because we need to install all of ROS 2 Humble packages
* After the build, you need to start a docker container
* Then just run the start script
    ```bash
    ./start_container.sh
    ```
* Now the docker container should be running
* If the start of the container failed or you can't see files in the `f1tenth` folder, you need to remove the container, check your configuration and start it again. So be sure that folder `f1tenth` is correctly mounted (you can see all the files) and that all the devices are connected before developing anything or it will be removed.
* **Never remove the container after final deployment or all your data will be lost**

### Useful commands for docker
```bash
docker ps                       # list running containers
docker ps -a                    # list all containers
docker stop <container-name>    # stop running container
docker rm <container-name>      # remove stopped container
docker exec -it <container-name> bash   # run docker environment (if ssh access is not working)
```


## 7. Connect to f1tenth car via ssh
* Now, when everything should be ready and you should be able to connect to the f1tenth car's docker container via ssh from your personal computer
* The docker container uses **port 2233** for ssh connection
* Connect to the wifi created by the car and run
    ```bash
    ssh -p 2233 nvidia@<ip-addr-of-car> # put here the IP address that you selected when seting up the device in section 4
    ```
* Or you can create/edit `~/.ssh/config` file on your personal computer
    ```bash
    Host <choose-name>
        HostName <ip-addr-of-car>
        User nvidia
        Port 2233
    ```
    and then simply run `ssh <choosen-name>`

## 8. Setup f1tenth workspace in the car's Docker container
* **Never build f1tenth ws in a terminal with sourced `f1tenth/install/source.bash`**, always use a separate window
```bash
cd ~/f1tenth
# Clone external packages' sources using vcstool.
vcs import --input stack.auto.repos --force
# Install any required dependencies using rosdep.
# We have to explicitly ignore
# - Stage because rosdep cannot detect pure CMake packages.
# - slam_toolbox and cartographer_ros because they are not needed for the FTG app
#   and might not be available on all platforms for an easy install using apt.
rosdep install -i --from-paths src -y --skip-keys="Stage slam_toolbox cartographer_ros"
# vesc_ackermann's build is failing (uses now-removed deprecated ROS 2 APIs) on rolling (and possibly humble).
# Because we do not use it now, we can afford to skip is build for now.
colcon build --symlink-install --cmake-args -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON --no-warn-unused-cli
```
* For multiple terminal windows, you can use [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki)
* Everything is already preconfigured, you can use the following command to start/attach to car's tmux session:
    ```bash
    tmux-car
    ```
* Other useful shortcuts:
    ```bash
    s           # source current ros workspace
    ws-clean    # clean current workspace
    car-start   # start the car by publishing false to /eStop topic
    auto start  # start the car by publishing false to /eStop topic
    car-stop    # stop the car by publishing true to /eStop topic
    auto stop   # stop the car by publishing true to /eStop topic
    ```

* For example, you can try running the Follow the Gap:
    ```bash
    # change the value of config based on your car
    ros2 launch auto auto.ftg.launch.py config:=tx2-auto-usa.yaml
    ```
